docs(dialog|window): Add KB for textbox focus on Window open (#2259)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/window-focus-button-textbox-on-open.md

---
title: Focus Button or TextBox on Window Open
description: Learn how to focus a button, input, textbox, or any component when the Telerik Window for Blazor opens.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Focus Button or TextBox on Window Open
slug: window-kb-focus-button-textbox-on-open
position: 
tags: telerik, blazor, window, dialog
ticketid: 1486212, 1513605, 1610413, 1659021
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Dialog for Blazor, <br /> Window for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

This KB article answers the following questions:

> * How to set default focus to a TextBox or a Button in a TelerikWindow?

Reviewer: Telerik Window isn't specific enough. Choose one of the following: 
* Blazor Window
* Telerik UI for Blazor Window
* UI for Blazor Window

* How to focus a button or a textbox inside a Window when the Window is made visible?
* How to focus a component after the Window opens? The JavaScript call is made before the Window actually shows, so the focusable element is `null`.
* How do you set focus on an input element in a Window, so that the user doesn't have to use their mouse?

## Solution

> To focus any element or component in the [Telerik Window for Blazor]({%slug dialog-overview%}), follow the steps below. They are also applicable for the [Telerik Dialog component]({%slug dialog-overview%}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To focus any element or component in the [Telerik UI Window for Blazor]({%slug dialog-overview%}), follow the steps below. They are also applicable for the [Dialog component]({%slug dialog-overview%}).
```

> 1. If the goal is to focus a Telerik Blazor component, [set the `@ref` attribute to obtain the component's reference]({%slug components/textbox/overview%}#textbox-reference-and-methods).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To focus a Telerik UI for Blazor component, [set the `@ref` attribute to obtain the component's reference]({%slug components/textbox/overview%}#textbox-reference-and-methods).
```

1. Raise a `bool` flag when showing the Window.
1. Check the boolean flag's value in `OnAfterRenderAsync()`.

> 1. Use a small `Task.Delay()` to wait for the Window to display and gain focus. Without a delay, the focusable component will either no exist yet, or the Window will steal the focus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use a small `Task.Delay()` to wait for the Window to display and gain focus. Without a delay, the focusable component will either not exist yet, or the Window will steal the focus.
```

> 1. Focus the desired button, textbox, or input component. If it's a Telerik Blazor component, use the [`FocusAsync()` method]({%slug inputs-kb-focus%}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Focus the desired button, textbox, or input component. If it's a Telerik UI for Blazor component, use the [`FocusAsync()` method]({%slug inputs-kb-focus%}).
```
